---
layout: default
title: How do men help defeat sexism in tech?
tags:
- sexism
published: false
---

<p class="intro">It is an inarguable fact that there are women in the tech industry that have been the target of immoral and sometimes criminal abuse by males within the industry. How do men help to solve this problem?</p>

The question mark at the end of the title of this post is intentional. This is not an attempt to outline the solutions to this problem. It is an honest question that I don't know how to answer. The fact that many women are uncomfortable or even abused in our industry makes me so enraged I don't even have words to describe it. It's possible I don't know the answer because I'm part of the demographic responsible for the problems. But I don't think that's the case. I think it has to do with the fact that some things are just so unimaginable that we are at a loss for action. History has proven this to be the case time and time again. I don't even think I need to name examples for you to know what I'm talking about. (That's an example in itself, isn't it?)

I want to say that I know the answer: we unequivocally and deliberately ostracize and remove offenders from our community. That means they don't get hired, they don't get to attend conferences, they don't get to be a part of our world. We see sexism and call people out. We take them out of roles of power because they abuse it. If they go as far as to verbally or physically abuse and assault, they go to jail. I just don't see any other reality that makes sense.

But that's the problem isn't it? It doesn't make sense. Not to me. Not to many others. So why does it still happen? That's where I fall short. I honestly have no idea what to do.

I grew up learning that women are to be respected. I wrongfully assumed that everyone else did as well. My little sister had a fun habit of crying on demand to get me in trouble. If things weren't going her way, she would bring the waterworks to get me in trouble. (Yes, real tears. On demand. No kidding.) I remember one time in particular we were fighting over something stupid, probably a toy we both wanted. She turned on her remarkably believable fake tears and told my dad that I hit her. I got yelled at and sent to my room. It seemed so unfair that I could get in trouble for her lie, so I protested and whined and told my dad that I never hit her. His answer? "I believe you, but just in case you're lying I have to punish you anyway. You just never hit a girl. Period. It's your job to protect them." I never forgot this. And I certainly never hit her for real. I got the message.

I'm not saying we prosecute every innocent male. I'm saying we have to make our community one that is so protective of each other that we don't let anyone be abused anywhere, by anyone. This extends beyond men and women, of course, but let's stay on topic.

In every case of sexism and assault I've heard about, the appropriate uproar of anger and support by the rest of the male community follows. There are plenty of us that get pissed off, call out the offender on twitter, and defend the victim against the inevitable trolls that come out to question the validity of the claim. This can't be all we do. We have a responsibility to prevent this from happening in the first place. A man that stands up for an abused woman is not a hero. He already failed for allowing it to happen in the first place.

Criminal actions aren't the only problem in our industry, of course. Not too long ago I [laughed at a joke](https://twitter.com/jonathanedean/status/371414657460076545) that I didn't realize alienated women in our industry and was offensive to many. (You can read it for yourself, I'm not going to re-post it here.) I'll be honest, I have a bad temper and was annoyed at being called out on it at first. You can tell by my reaction and there's no point in trying to hide that. After all, I meant no harm and didn't even realize what was offensive about it. I laugh at a lot of things that are intentionally offensive, actually. But it took a little help from [Emily](https://twitter.com/nexxylove) to finally understand the problem.

The fact that I didn't realize what was wrong with it _is_ the problem. Our industry is consistently validating and even endorsing the stereotypical demographic. We are sending the message, intentionally or not, that those that don't fall into this demographic are outside of it and an outlier in our community. Advertisements, conference events, company perks all contribute to this. If you don't believe me, try a little exercise. Try to imagine them being used for a different industry. Would they be appropriate for the healthcare industry, for example? Would a company advertising a work at home solution for nurses have used that ad? How about [these remarks](http://www.motherjones.com/media/2012/04/silicon-valley-brogrammer-culture-sexist-sxsw) at a conference for nursing?

Men, we have a responsibility to our female peers to help them. I suppose I made some recommendations, even though I didn't set out to do so. We need to stop and think about how our female counterparts will feel about each and every thing we say and do until it becomes natural. How do you act around your female relatives? How well would your ad work in a female dominated industry? How would you react if your sister or your mother was a victim of verbal or physical abuse? Just as importantly, how would they feel if they knew you let someone else suffer through your inaction? Here's a good way to start: add women to your marketing teams, conference committees, everywhere you have a presence in the community. Maybe the fact that the problem remains is an indication that well-intended men are not a replacement for the voice of women. We need to give them their own voice.

Women, we need your help. I didn't say anything new. I didn't come up with any groundbreaking solutions to the problem. But lots of us want to help. So very many of us have the desire but no idea where to start. Most of us aren't running a conference. Most of us aren't in advertising. Even more of us have never witnessed abuse happening in person. But we believe you that it's there and we are __not__ OK with it. And if what I said was wrong, please tell me. We need to be called out. Don't stop doing it.

__Update:__ I wonder if we need are more lists like this, but for all offenders: [http://tech-event-attendance-pledge.github.io/2013/10/12/objo/](http://tech-event-attendance-pledge.github.io/2013/10/12/objo/). I recently suggested as much to someone in private but don't want to start on anything that would exploit or harm any victims. If that's the kind of thing that helps, please reach out and let's talk about it. Especially interested in hearing from victims on how this would either help or hurt them.

__Update 2:__ [At least one woman doesn't think that type of list is helpful](https://twitter.com/keavy/status/389555310131560448), but more seem to think it is. Exactly why I am at a loss for what to do.